
=head1 NAME

Bif::DB - helper methods for a read-only bif database

=head1 VERSION

0.1.0_5 (2014-04-11)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use Bif::DB;

    # Bif::DB inherits from DBIx::ThinSQL, which inherits from DBI.
    my $db = Bif::DB->connect( $dsn );

    # Read only operations on a bif database:
    my $id = $db->path2project_id( $path );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Bif::DB> is a L<DBI> derivative that provides various read-only
methods for retrieving information from a L<bif> repository. For a
read-write equivalent see L<Bif::DB::RW>. The read-only and read-write
parts are separated for performance reasons.

=head1 METHODS

=over

=item uuid2id( $UUID ) -> Int | Undef

Returns the integer ID matching a topic C<$UUID>, or C<undef> if no
match is found.

=item path2project_id( $path, [ $REPO_ID ] ) -> Int

Returns the integer ID matching the project C<$path>, or C<undef> if no
match is found. By default local projects are searched. An additional
argument REPO_ID can be given to search projects is a different repo.

=item get_topic( $ID ) -> HashRef

Looks up the topic identified by C<$ID> and returns undef or a hash
reference containg the following keys:

=over

=item * id - the topic ID

=item * first_update_id - the update_id that created the topic

=item * kind - the type of the topic

=item * uuid - the universally unique identifier of the topic

=back

If C<$ID> has a length of 40 characters the search will be performed on
the basis that it is a UUID.

If the found topic is an issue then the following keys will also
contain valid values:

=over

=item * project_issue_id - the project-specific topic ID

=item * project_id - the project ID matching the project_issue_id

=back

=item get_update( "$ID.$UPDATE_ID" ) -> HashRef

Looks up the update identified by C<$ID.$UPDATE_ID> and returns undef
or a hash reference containg the following keys:

=over

=item * id - the topic ID

=item * update_id - the ID of the update

=item * kind - the type of the topic

=item * uuid - the universally unique identifier of the topic

=back

If the update relates to an issue then the following keys will also
contain valid values:

=over

=item * project_issue_id - the project-specific topic ID

=item * project_id - the project ID matching the project_issue_id

=back


=item get_local_repo_id -> Int

Returns the ID for the local repository topic.

=item get_project( $PATH, [$HUB] ) -> HashRef

Looks up the project identified by C<$PATH> in the local repository and
returns undef, a negative integer, or a hash reference containg the
following keys:

=over

=item * id - the topic ID

=item * first_update_id - the update_id that created the topic

=item * kind - the type of the topic

=item * uuid - the universally unique identifier of the topic

=item * path - the path of the project

=item * parent_id - the parent ID of the project

=item * local - true if the project is locally synchronized

=back

If more than one match is found then the negative number of matches is
returned.

A C<HUB> (actually a hub alias) argument can be given to search for
project paths in non-local (but registered) repositories.

=item status_ids( $project_id, $kind, @status ) -> \@ids, \@invalid

Takes a project ID, a thread type (task, issue, etc) and a list of
status names and returns an arrayref of matching IDs, and an arrayref
of invalid names. This method will silently ignore any @status which
are undefined.

=item get_repo_locations( $alias ) -> @HashRef

Returns a list of HASH references containing information about the hub
identified by C<$alias>, each with the following keys:

=over

=item * id - the topic ID for the hub

=item * alias - the alias for the hub

=item * location - the location of the hub

=item * is_default - true if it is the default location

=back

Returns C<undef> if C<$alias> is not found.

=item get_max_update_id

Returns the maximum update ID in the database.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Bif::DB::RW>

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark Lawrence E<lt>nomad@null.netE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2013-2014 Mark Lawrence <nomad@null.net>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

