=head1 NAME

bif-log - review the repository or topic history

=head1 VERSION

0.1.0_10 (2014-04-17)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    bif log [ID] [OPTIONS...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Display the history of changes in the repository in reverse
chronological order.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over

=item ID

A topic ID or a project PATH. If this argument is used then only the
history from that topic will be displayed, in hierarchical
(conversation topic) order.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item --filter TYPE

Only show entries of a specific TYPE:

=over

=item * new

Entries related to topic creation.

=item * status

Entries related to topic status changes. Note that this option will
include the entries from the 'new' filter.

=back

Can be used multiple times to filter on multiple types.

=item --format STYLE

[Not Implemented] Change the amount of detail displayed for each entry.
STYLE can be one of the following:

=over

=item * short

=item * normal

=item * full

=back

=item --group TIMESPAN

[Not Implemented] Group the entries together based on one of the
following TIMESPANs:

=over

=item * hour

=item * day

=item * week

=item * month

=item * logtime

Group the entries into blocks of activity that happened in the last
hour, today, yesterday, last week, etc.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<bif>(1)

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark Lawrence E<lt>nomad@null.netE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2013-2014 Mark Lawrence <nomad@null.net>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

