=for bif-doc #intro bif-doc-about - README file and main web page

=head1 About bif

Bif is a distributed bug tracker with a command-line interface. It
helps you manage tasks and issues using a local database, exchanging
updates with remote databases on demand.  The tool has several features
of interest to distributed project teams:

=over

=item Offline Operation

Many bif actions work offline; you can create and update tasks and
issues while disconnected from the network.

=item Inter-project Cooperation

Bif issues (and tasks) can be linked with (or copied to) multiple
projects, mirroring the inter-project relationships that exist in the
real world.

=back

This flexibility comes with minimal additional complexity; bif commands
are designed for consistency and ease of use.

Bif should eventually run on any system that supports Perl and SQLite,
but at present tests are only successful on Linux and BSD systems.

=head2 Who is bif for?

Bif is typically useful for software development teams and other
distributed project organisations.  Bif could work for you if the
following statements resonate:

=over

=item * You are comfortable working in a command-line environment

=item * Your team is spread across different locations

=item * Your projects have external dependencies

=back

Bif (or other user interfaces based on bif) may also be suitable for
companies with business-to-business relationships and within
multinational organisations.

=head2 What problems does bif attempt to address?

In addition to the generic problems facing every project organisation,
bif aims to answer the following specific challenges:

=over

=item The high costs of context switching

It takes a certain amount of effort to get your mind fully into a good
edit/compile/test cycle. Switching contexts to record your progress in
a browser is a painful and inefficient way to break up your day. You
would be better off going for a walk.

=item When your network connectivity is unreliable

It is a difficult task to maintain communication and status tracking
within a distributed project when the data network is an uncertain, or
expensive resource.  If developers can check in code, but can't update
the bug tracker because they are travelling, productivity drops. When
you cannot always link your project data with internal systems (e.g.
billing) then other business functions can suffer.

=item When your success depends on factors outside the project
organisation

Projects can experience time and cost difficulties when they have
external dependencies. Keeping track of the status in someone else's
issue tracking system is a thankless, manual process. If you can't find
the resources to do so then the lack of coordination leads to
duplication of effort, delays, or important issues falling through the
cracks.

=back

=head1 Software Status

Although functional, bif is still under active development.
Documentation and tests are incomplete, and the database schema changes
regularly.  B<DO NOT USE BIF FOR REAL DATA!> We are actively seeking
contributors. See below for how you can help.

=head1 Community Organisation

Bif is community supported software, and the community expects (and
should offer) respectful communication with all of its members.

=over

=item Website:

L<http://bifax.org/bif/>

=item Code Repository:

git://bifax.org/bif.git/

=item Issue Tracker:

Doesn't exit yet.

=item Mailing List:

Subscribe via L<http://www.freelists.org/list/bif-devel> and then send
mail to <bif-devel@freelists.org>.

=back

=head1 Installing

As a Perl wrapper around an SQLite database, bif depends on several
packages from the Comprehensive Perl Archive Network
(L<CPAN|http://cpan.org>). Bif and its dependencies can be easily
installed system-wide with the C<cpan> tool which is a standard part of
Perl.

=for bifcode #!sh

    sudo cpan App::bif

Note that some of the dependencies require a C compiler to build.

Alternatively you might find the right pre-compiled binary for your
system at L<http://bifax.org/bif/download/>.

=head1 Documentation

The main entry point for reference documentation is the L<bif
manual|bif>. After installation you should be able to access it by
running C<man bif> or C<perldoc bif>.  You can also browse the
documentation table of contents at L<http://bifax.org/bif/doc/>.

=head1 Contributing

You do not have to be a developer to contribute to bif! It is arguable
that many key aspects of successful open source projects have more to
do with the community and non-development contributions than technical
skills.  Help would be appreciated for practically anything:

=over

=item * Editing the reference documentation

=item * User-interface consistency checks

=item * Website design

=item * Blogging & advocacy

=item * Translation - no framework in place yet though

=item * Operating system distribution integrators

=item * Perl / SQLite test writers (many tests needed!)

=item * Software architect? The overall design could use a big dose of
third-party analysis.

=item * Security Analyst? Feel like starting a bif-doc-security
document or otherwise letting us know which vectors are most vulnerable?
I find it important to put some effort in here before bif becomes (if
ever) widely used.

=item * Big-picture thinker? How could the bif model of
information distribution be applied to address books, slow-changing
datasets (e.g. country lists, currencies), business transactions, etc.

=item * Financial sponsorship would also be more than welcome.

=back

What long-term project members lose relatively quickly are those fresh
eyes and first impressions that easily identify missing, broken and
unexplained things. Therefore feedback from first-time users, both
positive and negative, is extremely valuable.  Please get in touch!

=head1 Development

For those comfortable with git, development takes place on the "dev"
branch of the git repository, with communication via the development
mailing list.

=for bifcode #!sh

    git clone git://bifax.org/bif.git --branch dev
    cd bif

See the L<bif-doc-dev> document for information on how to hack on bif.

=head1 License

Bif is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program, and all material accompanying it, is distributed in the
hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the
implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

=head1 Credits

Bif was started by Mark Lawrence <nomad@null.net>. Other contributions
are listed in L<bif-doc-changelog>.

